We have any TAs in the call?
Is this meeting on today? Yes, sir. Wait a minute.
I'll check. Check in with sir. Sure. Thank you.
Hello? Hello?
Hello. Hello sir. Good evening.
Good evening sir. Good evening.
Actually, there was a software update in this process of uh,
getting into the LMS portal.
I was not able to log in through the usual link.
Then I had to call to the support team
and they had given their credential.
Now I have logged in using their credential,
so I got laid by 15 minutes.
Okay, so all
of your login has worked properly?
Yes, yes, yes sir.
So there was one change in
process, but yeah, it worked fine. Yeah.
So you are getting through LMS portal
itself. Your, um, your
Yes. Coming from
LMS portal last week you, for me this week it failed.
So actually we were told to register in Zoom using our
triplet email
and then thereafter we are to log through Zoom.
Mm. Okay.
But I, I used to log in through LMS portal directly.
There is a meeting link.
Okay. Okay.
So today I'll do with the, uh, numerical example,
that real time example, uh, with the
robot movement in a floor.
Okay, so let me open a
particular example.
So, uh, the plan is basically to show you
what is the environment in which every, uh, like
for two day's class, the agent is moving on.
It is a, there are two example called frozen lake.
The agent is moving in a frozen lake.
So we'll start with one simple example
today, okay?
How the environment looks like, uh, with the python also
and uh, in the normal, okay?
So the plan is here,
let me show you a simplest,
Okay?
So, uh,
the simplest example is called bandi to walk problem.
Next example is called uh,
uh, frozen lake.
Okay? So we'll go with the simplest example
before getting into uh, what is called stochastic policy on
what is called optimal policy.
I will show you the example of a numerical example.
Then I will show you the definition.
Actually in the last class, whatever I have shown you,
it is basically fast forward mode.
Basically when I teach the direct classroom at
that position, I do that.
But let me give you a proper feeling of a environment first.
So this is very simplest example is
called bandit work problem.
This is how it is. This is a deterministic case.
So there are only three state here, zero, one and two,
and the agent is starting from the state of zero.
Okay? And this, uh, zero
and two, these two states are called terminal state.
That means once you get into the state of zero
or two, you'll never be able to go out
of this two state, okay?
Zero or two. So your agent is
living in any one of these three state.
So naturally it cannot start with the state of zero
because it is a terminal state.
It can never come out of status of zero.
So it'll start from state of one.
It is a deterministic case.
That is what is called bandit walk problem.
I have shared this PDF to you, okay?
This is a chapter two PDF today.
We'll finish up chapter two.
So, uh, it is a deterministic case.
So with probability one, you can go from one
to zero state, okay?
And if you want to move on the left hand side,
you will be really landing into the state,
which is lying on the left hand side of the state of one.
Okay? If you are really moving into, if you really want
to move in the right hand side state with probability one,
you'll be landing to the state,
which is lying on the right hand side of you.
So this is called deterministic case, okay, fine.
So in this case, how the uh, problem is described,
it'll be described because the environment is known to you.
We are working on a problem
of course, reinforcement learning.
We're not in the deep reinforcement learning.
In the deep reinforcement learning,
we assume the environment, all the state
to state transition is not known to us.
Okay? Here.
Now, so how the
problem is described in terms of a table.
So the table is basically this table is called transition
probability description table.
So it has few columns.
The columns are what is the current state,
what is the action you are taking the current state,
what is the next state you are getting into?
What is the transition probability involving from this
current state to the next state?
And what is the signal that is called statewide signal.
So for current state, you're taking action, you are going
to get a reward signal, okay?
This reward signal for our uh, case.
In this case of course of reinforcement, we assume
that this reward signal is known to us.
But in the real life example, this reward,
statewise reward signal is not known to us.
Only when you complete your game, you,
you are going to get your reward.
Otherwise, in the, like you,
when you're play playing a chase game,
you do not receive any reward
till the time you complete again.
Okay? So here in this case the transition prob description,
the meaning is currently you're in the state of zero.
You take a action that is left side action.
So left side action is enumerated by zero,
and right side action is enumerated by the fellow of one.
So the state of zero, you're taking left hand side.
The next state is again zero
because it zero is a terminal state.
You can never go out of zero state irrespective
of the action that you take.
And what is the probability from uh, uh, zero, zero state
to zero state under the action of left?
The poverty is one, okay? And the reward signal is zero.
Similarly, if you consider the state of one, so state
of one is a non-term state.
That means you take action,
you are going to change your state.
Really, you are not going to remaining in the same state.
So under the state of one, you take action of lift.
What is the next step going to be? The zero state. Okay?
What is the probability for this to happen?
The probability is one, okay?
And the reward signal is zero. Here.
Similarly, when you take a right side movement from the
state of one, you go into the state of two
and your reward value is plus one.
That means basically this G state is called gold state.
This G, it is the state is gold state.
Once you have reached the goal state, you're going
to get a plus one reward.
Else. You would not receive any reward.
So this problem is the simplest problem.
This problem will be somewhat made difficult
by using the assumption called stochastic bandit
or it is called bandit slippery walk problem.
So what is slippery walk?
Slippery walk is basically, so this is your H state.
The state of zero H means hole. There is a hole.
Once you get into the state of zero,
you'll never able to come out.
This G state is called gold state and ace is a star state.
So sleeper walk environment, what we assume is you want to
move on the right hand side direction with 0.8 probability,
you'll be really landing into the state,
which is on your right hand side with 0.2 probability
you will be going to the state previous two years,
current state, okay?
So it is called slippery. Your flow is slippery,
you may be falling in.
So your state transition diagram will become
uh, like this.
So at a state of one you take, you want
to make a move on the right hand side.
But look at, there is a gate here.
There's this gate stands for with 0.8 property.
This gate will open, you will go into the right hand side
with 0.2 property.
The gate remaining close,
you'll be landing into the left hand side state.
Similarly, from here to here, also there is a gate here.
You want to move on the left hand side
with 0.8 probability the gate is open.
So we'll go into the state of zero.
With 0.2 property, you'll be falling to the unintended
uh, unintended state.
Okay? So 0.2 prob.
So 0.2 property is something which is basically accounting
for your uncertainty in your environment.
So what is going to change is this
transition probative value under the same table.
Okay? So starting from a state of one,
you take a left hand side movement with 0.8 probability,
you'll be getting in the state of zero
or you may be lying, you may be landing into set
of two under the same.
These two condition with a 0.2 probability, all
of these basically encoded in python variables,
I will show you them also.
So this transition probability you compute
or how do we der this transition probability?
No, it is given to you. Okay? So it's a pre different thing.
It is pre different. That's why
the environment is known to you.
We call it the environment is known.
So we directly apply, these are called determinist.
Uh, these are called model based approach, okay?
You have the model known to you,
Sorry, in the second case, the probabilities of 0.2
and 0.8 makes sense, but in the first case, right?
Uh, the probabilities are both one. So how is it possible?
So there are two outcomes, okay?
Probability will be 0.5, point, right?
Let me go to that table here, right?
Yeah. So if we start from start, uh, for this uh,
one, one as the start,
Start state is one.
Yeah. So there are, you Take a left hand side movement,
you'll be going to the state of Jro Arizona,
a left whole state, okay?
Correct. What is the probability that
you are taking the action of jro only?
Okay? You are not taking any probabilistic action.
That means it is a deterministic case.
So taking this,
you are landing into the next state of whole state.
There is no other state that you can go.
That's why it is one probability you are,
uh, what you are saying is, I understand your question
from the state of one.
Yeah, this figure from the state of one,
I take a action of left hand side, okay?
I will be getting into surely state of zero only.
I will not get in the state
of any other thing other than zero.
That's why the prob is one here, okay? Okay.
It is not like you are flipping a coin toss
and decide what action you want to take
and given a particular action,
what is going to be your next date.
That is outcome of another coin tossing.
We don't have that thing, okay?
Okay, sir,
I have shared you the PDFI actually, I'll be walking you
through this PDF so that
whenever you go back at any point of time in this week,
open up this PDF, which is a
easy walkthrough for you, okay?
Okay. So this is the frozen lake environment.
Today, my objective is to explain your environment
and then I will tell you what is called uh,
stochastic policy and what is called optimal policy, okay?
Because when I teach the BTech student directly in my
classroom, I see there are a lot
of confusion among the students.
So I hope that might be the according to you.
So let me give you the proper foundation.
Then I get into, basically I did the yesterday last class
as a fast forward mode.
Okay? So what is a frozen lake environment?
There is a greed.
There is a lake, uh,
in which the agent is going to be moving, okay?
So there are, it is four plus four greed.
The whole environment is splitted in four plus four grid.
This grid number 5, 7, 11, and 12. They are terminal state.
That means there are some pit holes.
Once you get into this state,
you'll be never able to come out.
Okay? Rest, all states are non terminal.
That means you are here in any one of these state.
You can move into any other state,
any other state including the whole state also.
Okay? Your objective is to reach to the goal state.
So what is the environment that we can specify
the environment specific means?
What is the state? How many states you have?
What is the state to state transition?
We don't do any hop step and jump.
We can do transition to only the next state.
So from zero you can go one or you can go four.
You can never go down diagonally also. Okay?
So this is the description of your state
and state movement for each
and every state transition, what reward you are going to get
that has to be provided to you
and what is the probability that you want to move from
state zero under a particular action.
What is the probability you'll be landing into this state
or that state that we're going to describe
by transition probability, right?
So just read about this.
Uh, agent starts from each trial at the state of zero.
Second thing is the,
it is a slippery environment.
So frozen surface, missing the agent to unintended place.
So basically we are, as I told you,
reinforcement learning is used
for taking a sequential decision under
uncertainty in the environment.
So you want to move from, let's say from state one
to state two, but the floor is slippery,
it is a frozen lake.
It is having total ice.
So because of slippery you may be falling to here.
You may be falling to here, okay?
So that is what is called slippery.
Third one is agent will get class one
reward only when you reach the state of 15.
Apart from that, any one
of the intermediate cell has no reward.
Okay? So this is a whole state. It is saying.
Now we are going to show you the diagram
before I show you the,
okay, this is your state space
and this one I have a Python
dictionary to show you.
So this is your state space in which you're moving.
So every time you're encountering some concept,
something called markoff decision process, okay?
What is basically mark of property?
Mark of property, or most of you have heard this property
because all of you are working in AI domain.
So Marco properties, basically it is speci,
it is describing particular vehicle.
Vehicle lessness in your transition, okay?
Lessness means suppose you are currently at the state of st.
That means the current time is T.
You are right now at the state of st.
So ST does not mean always.
Let's say this is S zero, okay?
S zero means when you have started your game, you,
when you have started your game, it need not be
that you are starting from the always state zero.
You can start from anywhere in the game, okay?
So, uh, that is why ST is also a random variable,
but how we have reached to the state, particular state,
that is a result of some sequential decision.
Those decision has happened at a time TT minus one,
T minus two starting from zero.
Okay? Markup markup property says that irrespective
of the history, okay?
What is going to be your next state is totally
dependent on your current state.
It is not dependent on your past states from
where you have arrived to the present state.
That is what it's called mark of process
or mark of property.
Another way it is called memoryless property.
You are using all this transformer
and all for your to generation.
Next one prediction, okay?
It also having a mark of property.
This is the description of your
Uh, sir, I have one basic, uh, queries sir,
regarding this reinforcement learning basic concept
and as well as that Marco edition process.
Sir, you told me that Marco edition process,
the current state where you were, uh,
you are available is not depending upon your past history.
Whereas the reinforcement in the basic model,
which you are told that agent reacts with the environment
and get rewards accordingly adjust to reach the gold state.
Mm. So how come these two theories can go hand in hand?
Okay, fine. So as I told you,
if you look at this expression,
this is the probability of transitioning from st
to st plus one, okay?
In this transition probability, you don't have any reward
that we are talking about.
In case of reinforcement learning, our objective is to
maximize your expected sum of discounted reward
and the reward is given at the end of your game.
Okay? So when you complete your game,
you might have taken a lot of transition in between, okay?
In each of the transition,
you might have not received any reward.
At the end of your game, only were receiving a reward. Okay?
So at every transition you take, your reward is basically
discounted by gamma factor.
So Marco property is not associated
with the reward that you are getting.
How we are going to get the reward.
It is not described Marco. Property is not about it.
Marco property is about
it talks about currently we're in this state,
you take action, you get into the next state.
This part is independent of
what you have taken additional time, time point
of T minus on or T minus two or T minus three like that.
So, so this I've understood sir,
like Marco process property this understood,
but how we are using this concept where we are not able
to get a reward and that we using
it in reinforcement learning. That's what my,
Okay, the reward, reward calculation, I will show you,
we have a new medical example here
that reward calculation.
I'll show you.
Okay sir, I'll show you this book. It is having it.
This is about the environment description.
This is the chapter two. Let me show you
that reward calculation.
It, it has given you clear example. I'll show you that.
Yeah, yeah. So this is your
bandaid, slippery game problem.
Okay, so slippery walk, bandaid, slippery.
There are five states here you are starting from a state
of three in this, uh, h
and g, they are terminal state, okay?
1, 2, 3, 4, 5. They are non terminal state.
Let's say you are starting a game from state of three,
this state of three, okay?
This three number, so the environment says
that 50% is your success.
That means suppose,
suppose you are the state in currently you are
living in the state of four.
You are taking a movement on the right hand side direction,
50% probability you'll be running into state of five,
33% probability.
You'll be going to the state of three
and then 16% probability you are
remaining in the same state.
Under this environment,
let us calculate your reward.
Okay? So look at you are starting your game
at times step zero at which state you are.
S state number three, state number three, okay, three.
Three. What are your next state movement
and your action that is specified here from state three.
You are going to state four.
Look at here it is, state three, zero reward,
state four zero reward.
Then state five, state four, state five, state six,
state six is your giving plus reward.
So these are the state to state movement you have made.
Okay? Now how you calculate your reward.
So this gamma easier discount factor.
So it'll be starting with discount there,
I mean at the start.
So from state three you are going to state four.
What is that reward? Zero Reward multiplied by multiplied by
discount factor right now is one here, okay?
Then, then this part from four to
five you are going, it'll be discounted by 0.99.
The next reward itself is zero. Okay?
Because your zero reward is given here, then from five
to six, five to four,
again back again zero multiply by Kama square.
Gamma is basically 0.99.
So Kama square turning out to with this value then kama cube
multiplied by again from four
to five we are going multiplied by zero.
So like that if you keep on calculating every time you are,
your reward is diminishing by comma factor
and the last step reward is giving one which has been
multiplied by gamma TOI power
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, Goma to five.
You land into this.
So that is your gain when you are
starting from the state of three.
Okay? So this is the reward calculation,
but macro properties not talking about all this thing.
Marco only says that suppose you are right now at a state
of five, okay?
You have started from state of three.
So this reaching the state of five from the state
of four is independent of how you have arrived.
The state of four, this is what is the meaning
of Marco Ed.
Sir,
just a second.
Okay? So that was the calculation of the word.
Let me go back to your slippery, uh, your frozen leg
because my intention is to
explain you about this environment
with the Python file itself.
So yeah, so I was here, okay?
So this is your environment.
So we can take four actions from every state
up, down, left, right?
Okay? And we can go only to the next state.
You cannot do any jump from one to three.
This, this means that you are into a terminal state.
No matter what action you take,
you can never come out of this state.
So that is the uh,
diagrammatic explanation.
But in terms of, yeah,
okay, so your 0 0 1 2, 3 0
is basically left hand side action.
So zero one is downside like that.
It is not, it is denoted like that.
This are the black state, that means they're terminal state.
Now we are going to show you in the
table format, okay?
Since it is a slippery environment, it means that
currently you are in the state of ace, you're taking action
of a, A is a particular action.
Let's say A is basically left hand side movement, okay?
But the next state can be any one of the four state
because we are having a slippery environment, you want to,
you are taking a left hand side movement,
doesn't mean you'll be landing into the left hand side cell,
you may be landing into any one of the four cells.
That is what this sum of the all priorities one, okay?
Under slippery environment, we have
to assume this probabilistic movement.
So here is that explanation. Look at here.
Shall I follow this book very diligently.
So look at you are the state of 13, okay?
And you can take left,
that is zero, okay?
This zero is basically so all of you're able
to see the book properly in the yes, yes sir
here Z zero standing for the action you have taken.
So you have taken action on the left hand side
naturally under it probabilistic movement.
You may go here, you may go to the state of nine, you may,
you go and hit the wall
and you'll be falling back to 13 again.
Or you may go to the 14 state which is the right hand side
of, okay, now look at here the curve, okay?
There's a connectivity from state to state.
So you have taken action, action is zero.
There is a gate here.
You look at, there is a black spot here, okay?
This, this spot, there's a gate here
with 0.33 probability it'll open
and you'll be getting into the left side cell.
That is a desired your 0.33 priority.
You'll be going to this side cell that is 90 degree angle
with you on the other side
and 0.33 priority, 90 degree angle from your intent,
from your intended position.
That is on the, you are going
to hit the wall, you'll fall back here.
So there is no movement
that you can go from here under the action of left,
you cannot go to 14.
So I, we have suppressed the option that
the next possible state cannot be any one
of the four state, okay?
It is only between this three state
because you are taking action.
The left hand side with 90 degree angle, you can go here
with 90 degree angle down, you can go here.
You don't have an option to take by falling back
by 180 degree is not possible here.
Okay? So that is the environment that has been described
to you and has been given to you, okay?
Under this environment, if you want to operate agent,
and we want to see if we start from state of zero,
we take a random trial under this environment, uh,
what is our reward that we can get
after so many trial that we can make?
That is what is our objective here. Okay?
So look at here in this state of nine it can go here.
If you take action on the upside, you can go into the state
of five with 0.33 probability
with 0.33 probability under the same action
of upside movement, you'll falling to the state of eight
under the same action of upside movement with 0.3,
he'll be following the 10 uh, state, okay?
That is what is the meaning here of the environment.
Now we are going to specify that in terms of your table.
So there are cannot
and stick this example they're talking about, right?
It is basically the same thing that I have told you.
The the enforcement learning that has been generated,
it has been pioneered by S and bra.
They have observed a dog called Pablo dog.
I have told you last class, the same thing by hearing bill,
it'll start salvation after a long time of training.
When it, you make a bill, you give him a food, you do this
for one month or two month.
After that you just ring the bell, you don't give him food,
you make him to wait,
the dog will start salvation, yes.
Okay, so now we'll show you your uh, table format
of your environment.
Let me open up state of one
because it is in a single page, okay?
State of one. So this is a state of one
and do I have a diagram again?
So look at how many possibility we have
under uh, every state.
I can take any one of the action left, right up
and down anything, okay?
So just consider left side action.
So under any particular state,
any particular action you may be falling into any one
of the three states which is residing just neighboring state
to you, okay?
Starting and your current state is one,
you take a left hand side action,
you may be falling into the state of one back
with a 0.3 probability.
You may be going to the state of zero with 0.33 probability.
You may be going to the state of five.
So one zero and five with 0.33 probability.
Just go back to the diagram.
Now this thing is encoded in python also.
That also I will show you if time is there today.
Uh, what is time now seven 15,
look at another diagram.
You are in the state of one, okay?
You take a left hand side movement,
you take a left hand side movement.
Next it can be zero, it can be here by unintended
because of the flow is slippery
or you take a unintended action because flow is slippery.
It is on the, this side 90 degree angle.
So you'll be hitting the wall falling back to one again.
So zero, one and five.
These are the next step possibility since you have three
act, uh, three next step possibility equally probably
all the next three steps.
So 0.33 probability for each one of them, okay?
So like that we can see for two also
for two on the left hand side action.
The next step can be one, it can be two back again
because you're hitting the wall, you'll fall back
to two or it can be six.
All of them will be equal probability.
Just go back and tell your,
yeah, so two from two you can go to one
0.3 from two.
Under the left hand side you will go to two.
You are hitting the wall falling back from two under,
under the left hand side action you will go
to six to 0.3 report.
So like that you are going to in,
you might this from the in, uh, from the given diagram.
Now I'll show you the same thing under uh,
python, okay?
So this is how we describe that in the python.
So this, this problem is sir, one quick question here.
Can we go to the diagram quickly sir?
So it means the action where already has been performed,
it'll go into that direction.
Only means if it is in a no two then it'll move towards
second, it'll not go to the right.
Yeah. Now tell me what you are telling.
Yes sir. Uh, am I audible sir? Yeah,
I confirm. So,
uh, when I am at this state of one, then it can move
to left, right sir towards zero or down.
So as two has not, uh, still active,
then it'll not go to the right sir.
Um, is my understanding correct?
No, there are uh, you have said that I want
to go left right from one, yeah,
from one you want to go left.
So your desired cell is zero
fine, but since the flow is slippery, you are
movement can happen in 90 degree angle
of your desired direction.
So it'll be downside
or it can be upside here, okay? So, okay sir,
If you Hit, if you take a undesired
because of the floor slippery, that undesired is coming as
probably 0.33, you are hitting the wall,
you'll fall back to one again.
Okay sir, Come
Two is at 180 degrees so it can't move.
Ah, that is possibility.
There is no possibility. 180 degree,
Yes.
Okay, We got it. Thank you.
Now whatever I have told you,
I'll show you in here Python, uh,
how we are describing this environment in dictionary, okay?
So this is the simplest example.
That is I have only three state, let me show you the diagram
and so you can easily correlate them.
So this is the diagram here is a simplest case,
bandaid work problem three, state, zero, one
and two, action zero means it is left hand side action,
action one means right hand side action.
Okay, so we are going to describe this, okay?
So description is here currently.
So this is a dictionary. It has key and value pair.
So key are the states zero, one, and two.
So zero is here, one is here, okay, this is one
and again you have this zero, uh, two.
So these are three states.
Under each and every step we specify
what is the action you're gonna take.
So the first, so you now you, this is a key value pair
and the value you have again,
two key and value pair.
So key is now zero and one.
So this denotes what is the action you are taking, okay?
And if you take the action of zero,
that means you're taking a left hand side action.
Look at here, you take the action of zero,
taking a left hand side action.
Okay, so what is your next date?
Your next date is your zero.
Okay, let me explain from you from here.
So this is a state of one.
You are taking the action of zero.
That means you're taking a left hand side action.
So what is the next state?
Your next state is given here zero.
So the key hallel, you have four couple here,
this is the top first one is the probability,
second one is the next state.
Third one is your reward.
And fourth one is it is a flag whether it is a terminal
state, that means this state, the state of zero here,
whether this state is a terminal state
or it is a non terminal state.
If it is a terminal, then it is true If it is
non terminal, it is false.
Okay? So that is how we specify the state of one
on all possible actions.
So it can take zero or one.
Now tally with your, if it takes zero, you are going
to next state of zero.
Next state is zero here, okay, this one is zero.
What is the probability? The probability is one.
What is the reward?
You get, you get zero reward
and the state of zero is a terminal state, okay?
Like that you take a movement, that is one
that means you're taking a right hand side movement.
What is the next state? The next date is two.
The probability for that is one
and what is the reward for that?
The reward is one
because two is your gold state here, okay?
This is very simple to understand.
We will describe the same thing
for your slippery environment.
So the same thing I'm going to ex show you in this.
So this is the environment
for which the bandit slippery.
Now when it slippery says 80% action,
80% time you are going to get a success.
20% you're going to get a backward.
So let's explain the state of one again.
So state of one, it has two possible action, zero or one.
So zero or one. If you take the action of zero,
that means you're taking a left hand side action.
The next state is zero
because left hand side is state numbered by zero.
What is the probability?
Because you are taking a left hand side action,
you are really moving on the left hand side
with 0.8 probability, 0.2 probability.
You may be moving on to right hand side,
that is the probability is given here
and your next date is two, this next date is two fine.
And what is the reward? You get?
You get a reward of one
because when you from here you have taken a movement on this
side, but you have fallen back from this gate is closed,
you have fallen to here, you get a reward of plus one.
Okay? So like that it is given
here, alright?
And there is a gym package available.
This is gym package is come open ai.
So you just import uh, gym, you peep install gym
and you will get a gym package.
You call this function gym dot make bandi slippery walk
V zero, okay?
You'll be getting this environment, you don't have
to write it by yourself.
This I have written just for need to show you
how environment is encoded.
Time is 7 25. Now,
Excuse me sir, I have a doubt sir.
Mm, sir. Gym is a library or package, sir?
Gyms, a gym is a package.
You have to install gym,
then you get many libraries under package,
Okay?
Okay sir. So one, one more question, sir.
Mm sir.
This, uh, p whatever you have, uh, initialized.
Mm uh, what is the data structure sir? Uh,
Is a dictionary data Set dictionary. Okay sir. Got it.
Python dictionary. Okay.
And Python allows you to do the nesting of dictionary, okay?
This is Esthetic dictionary. Okay sir? Thank you sir.
Okay, so the next one is uh, your
frozen leg or slippery walk.
Okay? Slippery walk three.
I will show you frozen leg itself.
So that will be closing the class
with the proper completion.
Sir, here we are moving towards two then it is 180 degree
angle instead of 90.
Which one? Uh, sorry. In the example which we of
Oh yes, yes. Right, right.
So we are moving 180 degree,
Yeah. Yes, yes,
you are fine. You're right. You are right.
Yes. These are the environment given to you.
You can change anything accordingly.
You have to write that python dictionary.
Yeah, okay. Okay.
Here it is allowed because it is a simple linear movement.
In case of uh, frozen leg,
you can move here to here like that.
That's why we're restricting 180 degree.
Yeah. Yes, thank you.
Already time is seven 20.
Where is that diagram? Yeah, so this is the diagram.
Hmm. So in this diagram, if you look at from here,
I can, if I take a ference side action, I'm allowed to go
to nine, I'm allowed to take this side, not allowed.
Basically these are unintended action.
I will go back, fall back to 13 again. Okay?
This one I will show you in the python. Now
random walk,
yeah, so grid world.
Yeah. So here 33% chance is your
action is resulting into success.
That means it is taking to the desired direction, 66% chance
split evenly in right angle.
So this is the environment, okay?
We have four across four grid, 16 states
and you will get plus one reward under the reaching
of your goal state.
So how we are describing this now,
let's say we are currently at the state of zero.
Let's, I'll show you in some middle state, okay?
It is easy for you to understand.
So middle state, let's say it is eight I,
okay, eight and what is a state of eight?
Okay? And nine, nine is a middle state, which has a lot
of open ground nine, state of nine.
So look at here, this is my state of nine.
So this is state of nine,
it has all this.
So eight, nine.
So under the action of zero, act zero means
what is the zero action left hand side.
Okay? So you can 0.33 probably will be landing into eight.
So look at here, 0.33 probability
you will be landing into state of eight.
What is the reward you get?
Reward is zero, whether it is a terminal state,
whether eight is a terminal state.
No. So it is false here. Okay, look at here.
False, fine, that is how it is explained.
Say again from nine, you take a left hand side movement,
your desired direction is left hand side,
but with 0.33 priority you'll be falling into the downside.
So your next date will be 13.
So this one, your next date is 13. Okay?
What is the reward for that? Zero.
And is it a terminal state? 13 is not false.
Okay, so that is how it is encoded.
So it is a nest state dictionary.
Every action is encoded like this.
This is the current state,
nine is the current state you take action.
This is your probability of success
is the next date is the reward,
and this is that whether it is terminal or not fine.
That is how it is encoded.
Next class, I'll show you what is called policy, uh,
stochastic policy and what is called optimal policy.
Okay, fine sir.
A small certific can can share this
PD document I have already shared.
So in LMS we didn't get, it's not available, sir. Yes,
It is not available. Is the
ta, is the TA in the zoom
TA please help here.
Ta. Other TAs present?
Yes ma'am. Okay, I'm here sir.
Okay, fine. Fine. So I'll send you, uh, uh,
I'll reach out to my ta.
She, but I, I'll upload today only sir, that chapter two.
Okay. Okay, fine. Uh, yes sir. All the is within,
So already you are having a pdf F, right? Neha?
Yes sir. You have shared now all the PDFs via Gmail.
Okay, fine. Uh, sir, one more thing, uh,
one request more for even for the TA also actually, uh,
last week the assignment was submission was through form,
Google form, okay.
Uh, we would prefer if it is similar to other, uh,
other subjects where the notes are being submitted
through LMS, uh, LMS portal only.
So that helps actually.
And so if the ta uh, if you can,
if they can take care of it, it'll be helpful.
Okay. So currently you have uploaded to LMS portal?
No sir. No sir. Through Google form. We'll form.
Okay. I, uh, basically LMS portal
is undergoing some changes.
That's why Saturday night there was an update I will talk
to basically TA also do not have any control over it.
I have to talk to those support team. Okay?
Okay. Apart from that sir, excuse me,
Uh, could you please uh, give us some more time sir, soon
after the class to submit the assignment,
if not the same day, at least 24 hours after the class
Assignment? I have not
given, I have only asked you
to sub upload your class note,
whatever you are making. Yeah,
Class notes only, sir.
That's what I'm, I meant.
Okay, so Sunday night,
9:00 PM till 9:00 PM I have made it.
What about today's session? Okay, which three basis?
Uh, two, I mean two classes right in a week.
These two classes? Yes sir. Will upload it on Sunday night.
Okay, got it. Okay, sir,
Signed two classes. We need to actually
For Sunday night? Yes.
Yes, for Every week. Okay.
For week by week you upload? Yeah,
Yeah, sure, sure.
Combining two classes in a week.
Okay, sorry, I prepared, I've prepared the notes
but I was not able to upload.
So for today also they will be sharing this little
Form only. No, no,
no. It'll be shared to you by which media?
That I am not sure,
but it is, the due date is Sunday night, 9:00 PM
Probably I will send a mail to the support team
to make It is available on your LMS portal.
LMS portal only? Yeah, it gives a kind
of a due dates and everything.
So it is for us also, it's easy to track which has,
which has been submitted, which by pending et cetera.
Okay, fine. Then you'll share the Google
collab links as well.
Yeah, I will do that.
Sorry, the previous class as well sir,
because uh, we, it was
Difficult to find previous class.
I have not shown you any Google collab, right?
It was only PDF and my PPT.
Yes sir. No, the class summary sir.
We could not access it and it was
difficult to access the file.
Locate the file as well,
Sir. Last summary.
Yes. For class summary. Yes sir.
Uh, last classes I have given you my PDF
and I have written something on my own style.
You want the stylist not sheet?
No sir. What he's asking is like we have prepared the
summary but we are not aware of the location
of the Google form, so we are not able to submit it.
So whether the first two classes summary,
we can submit through any other channel.
Like can we send it to you by email or something?
No, no, no. Don't send me by email.
I will give, um, give you time for that
because of LMS portal has a lot of change.
I myself to not log in, I face travel.
I will make it available through LMS portal only you submit
it there week by week basis.
Okay, so week one we are going to have totally 14 weeks.
Okay? So week one, week two, like
that you put it one single PDF file.
Okay sir. Okay. Do we need
to specify the date of the class?
Yeah, date of the class inside your note sheet?
Yeah. Okay. Okay, sure.
So for last week, uh,
class summary assignment you have mentioned
only for class two, right?
For class one you said it's not required? Hmm?
Uh, it's the first class. Yeah. Okay, sir. Yeah,
Yeah, correct. Fine.
Okay, sir. Sir, thank you sir.
First, so if we can submit both the notes this time,
this Sunday, last class Sunday today and next Sunday three
Classes. Okay, fine. Yeah, yeah,
fine. All three class. Okay, fine.
Not three. It is weekly basis. Okay.
So every week one file we upload
with the date of both the classes.
Let's say we're uploading only four pages, two pages for uh,
witness dec class, two pages for set the class, both
of them you have only single file.
So what's the word limit? Don't for
Other classes it's like one 50 words,
but now you mentioned two pages for each class.
Ah, I'm just giving example. Let's say you are, uh,
making two pages note for the witness dec class,
another two page note for the s deck class.
In that case, you combine these two files,
upload only single file,
Okay, sir?
Uh, part class you should not make it more
than five pages.
So it is only a hundred words for all other classes.
So five pages means it'll be a lot of words I believe. Ah,
So I have a maximum.
There is no uh, lower limit, max limit is fine. Okay, sir,
Will we have question?
This quiz during this Saturday?
Yeah, there the quiz every week there will be one quiz,
Okay? Okay,
sir.
Quiz, uh, is On only Sunday, sir. Hmm? Yeah. Sunday.
Yeah, sun, uh, Saturday night it gets activated.
The time is still, yeah, Sunday evening
Till Sunday evening.
I think 8:00 PM till that time it'll be open.
You can log in anytime,
attempt it anytime till 8:00 PM
Thank you sir. Okay, thanks a lot. Thank sir.